Docs for Frame Benchmarking (#7121)
paritytech/substrate: frame/benchmarking/README.md

you develop for your Substrate Runtime.

## Overview

Substrate's FRAME framework allows you to develop custom logic for your blockchain that can be
included in your runtime. This flexibility means that you can program and design complex and
interactive platforms, but it also means that your blockchain may be vulnerable to attack by
malicious actors taking advantage of these new functionalities.

The Substrate Runtime Benchmarking Framework is a tool you can use to mitigate denial of service
attacks against your blockchain network by benchmarking the computational resources required to
execute different functions in the runtime.

The general philosophy behind Substrate benchmarking is to calculate the time it takes to execute a
specific piece of logic, usually a dispatchable function, by running this function within the
expected execution environment (Wasm, specific hardware, runtime configuration, etc...), multiple
times, and across varying input parameters. From these benchmarks, we can construct a linear model
of the computational resources that function needs to execute, and use this to inform our blockchain

> of the estimated resources needed before actually executing that function on a live network.

Author: This could probably be written more clearly and simply.

you develop for your Substrate Runtime.

## Overview

Substrate's FRAME framework allows you to develop custom logic for your blockchain that can be
included in your runtime. This flexibility is key to help you design complex and interactive
pallets, but without accurate weights assigned to dispatchables, your blockchain may become vulnerable to denial of service attacks by malicious actors.

The Substrate Runtime Benchmarking Framework is a tool you can use to mitigate denial of service
attacks against your blockchain network by benchmarking the computational resources required to
execute different functions in the runtime.

The general philosophy behind the benchmarking system is: If your node can know
ahead of time how long it will take to execute a transaction, it can safely make decisions to
include or exclude an extrinsic based on its available resources. By doing this, it can keep the
block production and import process running smoothly.

To achieve this, we need to model how long it takes to run each function in the runtime by:

* Creating custom benchmarking logic that executes a specific code path of a function.

> * Executing the benchmark in the Wasm execution environment and on a specific set of
>   hardware, custom runtime configuration, etc...

Author: ```suggestion
* Executing the benchmark in the Wasm execution environment, on a specific set of
  hardware, with a custom runtime configuration, etc...
```

# Substrate Runtime Benchmarking Framework

This crate contains a set of utilities that can be used to benchmark and weigh FRAME pallets that
you develop for your Substrate Runtime.

## Overview

Substrate's FRAME framework allows you to develop custom logic for your blockchain that can be
included in your runtime. This flexibility is key to help you design complex and interactive

> pallets, but it also means that your blockchain may become vulnerable to attack by malicious actors
> taking advantage of these new functionalities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pallets, but without accurate weights assigned to dispatchables your blockchain may become vulnerable to DoS attacks by malicious actors.
```

The Substrate Runtime Benchmarking Framework is a tool you can use to mitigate denial of service
attacks against your blockchain network by benchmarking the computational resources required to

> execute different functions in the runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
execute different dispatchables in the runtime.
```

> The general philosophy behind Substrate the benchmarking system is: If your blockchain can know

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The general philosophy behind the benchmarking system is: If your node can know
```

> The general philosophy behind Substrate the benchmarking system is: If your blockchain can know

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The general philosophy behind Substrate's benchmarking system is: If your blockchain can know
```

ahead of time how long it will take to execute a transaction, it can safely make decisions to

> include or exclude the transaction based on its available resources. By doing this, it can keep the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include or exclude an extrinsic based on its available resources. By doing this, it can keep the
```

> block production and block import process running smoothly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
block production and import process running smoothly.
```

> To achieve this, we need to model how long it takes to run each function in the runtime by:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To achieve this, we need to model how long it takes to run each dispatchable function in the runtime by:
```

Had the same nit above, just to clarify to a naive user that we only care about functions that can be dispatched. Up to you if it needs clarifying.

Author: This is actually not true right?

We care about `on_initialize` and `on_finalize` which I consider system level functions.

Reviewer 2: hmm right. I guess function is okay then.

> * Creating custom benchmarking logic which executes a specific logical path of a function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Creating custom benchmarking logic which executes a specific code path of a function.
```

> * Creating custom benchmarking logic which executes a specific logical path of a function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Creating custom benchmarking logic that executes a specific logical path of a function.
```

> * Executing the benchmark within the expected execution environment, i.e. Wasm, any specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Executing the benchmark in the Wasm execution environment and on a specific set of
```
maybe?

  hardware, custom runtime configuration, etc...

> * Executing the benchmark across controlled ranges of possible values that may effect the result of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Executing the benchmark across controlled ranges of possible values that may affect the result of
```

>   the benchmark. (called "components")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the benchmark (called "components").
```

> * Executing the benchmark multiple times at each point in order isolate and remove outliers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Executing the benchmark multiple times at each point in order to isolate and remove outliers.
```

> * Using the results of the benchmark to create a linear model of the function across its components.

Reviewer: Not sure I understand what "linear model" means here, can you elaborate (or link to external def)? Or should it be "complexity model" or some such?

Reviewer 3: It means that the results tend to be linear functions of their inputs. For example, if a DB read in a trie of depth 4 takes 100 ns, then we might reasonably expect a depth of 5 to take 125ns, 6 to take 150ns, etc. A nonlinearity would be if a depth of 7 made the read time jump to 280ns.

Reviewer: I see. That underlying assumption is pretty important to mention imo; might be worth dedicating a few lines to it (outside this list).

Author: agreed this is an important assumption. let me find a spot to put it

> With this linear model, we are able to estimate ahead of time how long it would take to execute some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this linear model, we are able to estimate ahead of time how long it takes to execute some
```

> logic, and thus make informed decisions without actually spending any significant resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
logic, and thus make informed decisions without spending significant resources at runtime to calculate fees.
```
maybe?

Author: Its not only about calculating the fees, but just not executing any of the function logic at all. so i think this is worse :P

Reviewer: fair enough :)

However, I think adding `at runtime` clarifies where this saving of effort comes into play.

Author: agreed will add

> The benchmarking framework comes with the following components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The benchmarking framework comes with the following tools:
```
I'm thinking "component" is used above with a different meaning.

Author: 100%

* [A set of macros](./src/lib.rs) (`benchmarks!`, `add_benchmark!`, etc...) to make it easy to
  write, test, and add runtime benchmarks.
* [A set of linear regression analysis functions](./src/analysis.rs) for processing benchmark data.
* [A CLI extension](../../utils/benchmarking-cli/) to make it easy to execute benchmarks on your
  node.

> The end to end benchmarking pipeline is disabled by default when compiling a node. If you want to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The end-to-end benchmarking pipeline is disabled by default when compiling a node. If you want to
```

run benchmarks, you need to enable it by compiling with a Rust feature flag `runtime-benchmarks`.
More details about this below.

### Weight

Substrate represents computational resources using a generic unit of measurement called "Weight". It
defines 10^12 Weight as 1 second of computation on the physical machine used for benchmarking. This
means that the weight of a function may change based on the specific hardware used to benchmark the
runtime functions.

By modeling the expected weight of each runtime function, the blockchain is able to calculate how
many transactions or system level functions it will be able to execute within a certain period of
time. Often, the limiting factor for a blockchain is the fixed block production time for the
network.

Within FRAME, each dispatchable function must have a `#[weight]` annotation with a function that can

> return the expected weight for the worst case scenario execution of that function given it's inputs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
return the expected weight for the worst case scenario execution of that function given its inputs.
```

This benchmarking framework will result in a file that automatically generates those formulas for

> you which you can then use in your pallet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
you, which you can then use in your pallet.
```

## Writing Benchmarks

> Writing a runtime benchmark is much like writing a unit test for your pallet. They need to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing a runtime benchmark is much like writing a unit test for your pallet. It needs to be
```

carefully crafted to execute a certain logical path in your code. In tests you want to check for

> various success and failure conditions, but with benchmarks you specifically want to test for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
various success and failure conditions, but with benchmarks you specifically look for the
```

**most computationally heavy** path, a.k.a the "worst case scenario".

> This means that if there are certain storage items or runtime state that may effect the complexity

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This means that if there are certain storage items or runtime state that may affect the complexity
```

of the function, for example triggering more iterations in a `for` loop, to get an accurate result,
you must set up your benchmark to trigger this.

It may be that there are multiple paths your function can go down, and it is not clear which one is

> most heavy. In this case, you should just create a benchmark for each scenario! You may find that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the heaviest. In this case, you should just create a benchmark for each scenario! You may find that
```

> there are paths in your code where complexity may become unbounded depending on user input. This may
> hint to you that you should implement sane boundaries for how a user can use your pallet. For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
there are paths in your code where complexity may become unbounded depending on user input. This may
be a hint that you should enforce sane boundaries for how a user can use your pallet. For
```

example: limiting the number of elements in a vector, limiting the number of iterations in a `for`
loop, etc...

> Examples of end to end benchmarks can be found in the [pallets provided by Substrate](../), and the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Examples of end-to-end benchmarks can be found in the [pallets provided by Substrate](../), and the
```

specific details on how to use the `benchmarks!` macro can be found in [its
documentation](./src/lib.rs).

## Testing Benchmarks

You can test your benchmarks using the same test runtime that you created for your pallet's unit
tests. By creating your benchmarks in the `benchmarks!` macro, it automatically generates test
functions for you:

```rust
fn test_benchmark_[benchmark_name]<T>::() -> Result<(), &'static str>
```

Simply add these functions to a unit test and ensure that the result of the function is `Ok(())`.

> **Note:** If your test runtime and production runtime have different configurations, you may get
different results when testing your benchmark and actually running it.

In general, benchmarks returning `Ok(())` is all you need to check for since it signals the executed
extrinsic has completed successfully. However, you can optionally include a `verify` block with your

> benchmark which can additionally verify any final conditions, such as the final state of your

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
benchmark, which can additionally verify any final conditions, such as the final state of your
```

runtime.

> These additional `verify` blocks will not effect the results of your final benchmarking process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These additional `verify` blocks will not affect the results of your final benchmarking process.
```

> To run the tests, you need to be sure to enable the `runtime-benchmarks` feature flag. This may also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the tests, you need to enable the `runtime-benchmarks` feature flag. This may also
```

mean you need to move into your node's binary folder. For example, with the Substrate repository,

> this is how you would test the Balances Pallet's benchmarks:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
this is how you would test the Balances pallet's benchmarks:
```

```bash
cd bin/node/cli
cargo test -p pallet-balances --features runtime-benchmarks
```

> ## Adding Benchmarks

Reviewer 2: I think a logical ordering is first `## Adding Benchmarks` and then `## Testing Benchmarks`.

The benchmarks included with each pallet are not automatically added to your node. To actually
execute these benchmarks, you need to implement the `frame_benchmarking::Benchmark` trait. You can
see an example of how to do this in the [included Substrate
node](../../bin/node/runtime/src/lib.rs).

Assuming there are already some benchmarks set up on your node, you just need to add another
instance of the `add_benchmarks!` macro:

```rust
///  configuration for running benchmarks
///               |    name of your pallet's crate (as imported)
///               v                   v

> add_benchmark!(params, batches, pallet_balances, Balances);

Reviewer: Should there be a `#[cfg(feature = "runtime_benchmarks")]` before this?

Author: ehh, its actually already wrapped in a runtime api which has this feature flag.

I have omitted a lot of code here for simplicity, but I think if you `find` this text in substrate, it would be clear what to do.

Author: you can let me know otherwise

///            the `struct` created for your pallet by `construct_runtime!`
```

Once you have done this, you will need to compile your node binary with the `runtime-benchmarks`
feature flag:

```bash
cd bin/node/cli
cargo build --release --features runtime-benchmarks
```

## Running Benchmarks

Finally, once you have a node binary with benchmarks enabled, you need to execute your various
benchmarks.

You can get a list of the available benchmarks by running:

```bash
./target/release/substrate benchmark --chain dev --pallet "*" --extrinsic "*" --repeat 0
```

Then you can run a benchmark like so:

```bash
./target/release/substrate benchmark \
    --chain dev \               # Configurable Chain Spec
    --execution=wasm \          # Always test with Wasm
    --wasm-execution=compiled \ # Always used `wasm-time`
    --pallet pallet_balances \  # Select the pallet
    --extrinsic transfer \      # Select the extrinsic
    --steps 50 \                # Number of samples across component ranges
    --repeat 20 \               # Number of times we repeat a benchmark
    --output \                  # Output benchmark results into a Rust file
```

> This will output a file `pallet_name.rs` which implements the `WeightInfo` trait you should include

Reviewer 2: `WeightInfo` is never explained in this doc. I think could use some explanation further up in `Writing Benchmarks` section.

> in your pallet. Each blockchain should generate their own benchmark file with their custom

Reviewer: This is a bit unclear to me: the file is created in the crate root? Need to be copied into the runtime source file? Or…?

Do we have any tooling available to list un-weighted pallets or dispatchables? Like "test coverage" but for weights.

Author: file will be created in your working directory where you executed the command. It will be a todo feature to support a custom path for the file.

No tools available atm for test coverage of weights. also a good idea for CI

implementation of the `WeightInfo` trait. This means that you will be able to use these modular
Substrate pallets while still keeping your network safe for your specific configuration and
requirements.

> To get a full list of available options when running benchmarks, simply execute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get a full list of available options when running benchmarks, run:
```

Substrate's FRAME framework allows you to develop custom logic for your blockchain that can be
included in your runtime. This flexibility is key to help you design complex and interactive

> pallets, but without accurate weights assigned to dispatchables, your blockchain may become vulnerable to denial of service attacks by malicious actors.

Reviewer: long line
